The world is composed of fixed maps connected through wilderness maps.
When the player is in a wilderness map, he can Travel, which takes him to the world map.
While in the world map, the only available commands are Explore and Look. 
When a player moves to a fixed map in the world map (like a town), he is automatically transported to the local map.
Wilderness maps are generated randomly choosing from different biomes.
Wilderness maps include random monsters, plants and NPCs.
When travelling across the world map, the player can get an ? or ! symbol.
?: optional encounter with a friendly NPC
!: mandatory encounter with an enemy
Tents can be built in wilderness and allow to rest, restoring all your health and mana.
The same effect is reached by sleeping in inns.
Sleeping is a word that can only be casted to a nearby bed or tent.
When hit, a wound is created. Some HPs are lost permantly, while others can be recovered as soon as the wound is cured.
Wounds can be cured with plants, potions and magic.
Wounds are cured automatically over time. While recovering, more energy is consumed.
Mercenaries can be recruited at inns.
Mercenaries are procedurally generated from a series of classes and character traits.
Mercenaries say random comments regarding the current situation at random times.
There are ancient portals scattered across the world that allows to travel through them once properly activated.
Plants are scattered around the world and can be picked up.
The player can make potions with the plants he collect.
Plants have toxicity levels.
A player can only take up to certain number of potions before getting intoxicated.
When intoxicated, a player can get temporal/permanent effects or even death.
The game is set in one region. There is a major city and small villages.
When you enter into certain area. you get a message with a description of it.
When you sleep, the chat displays what you have dreamt.

You seek the men who killed your parents and enslaved you during your childhood. Agarras fuertemente el emblema que encontraste junto al cadaver de tus padres. Confias en que el emblema te conducirá hacia tus enemigos a quienes desplegarás tu venganza. You were told in a dream to travel far to the East. After several weeks of harsh trips through inospitable mountains you manage to leave the snow behind and reach the grassy lands of Zorah. Agotado y sin apenas provisiones, 

Your adventure starts here. Good luck.

The goal of the game is to reach the Self.
The character has a dream with certain symbolism and somehow you are told to travel to the east.
You arrive to the grassy plains of Tiammut.
Initiation ritual in sacred chamber where you have to eat the mushroom.

The game 

The path is revealed to the one who seek with a honest heart.
Temples were often built in the heart of sacred groves
The Epic of Gilgamesh

Things you can do in cities:
- Buy stuff
- Talk to the townfolk
- Get quests and abilities from townfolk
- Fight at the arena
- Join guilds
- Have sex from prostitutes
- Hire mercenaries
- Read books
- Pickpocket
- Buy a slave

MAIN QUESTS
#1: Kill bandit leader. Rescue chief's daughter.
#2: Kill vampire.
#3: Get Water of Life to dying king

RANDOM QUESTS
#1: Escort pilgrim

#2: Defend woman from bandits

#3: Defend traveler from monster

Regions:
>> Hyberia (northern plains, wild horses, stone, Saturn, litholatry, menhirs)
		- Mine
		- Wild horses that you can tame
- XXX (swamp, witch)
>> Khazistan
		- al-Sharab desert: The harsh and inhospitable wastelands of the al-Sarab desert are mostly covered with vast sand dunes.
		- Khazraj nomad tribe
		- Oasis of Zul
		- City-state of Zul-Khalas: located in the oasis of Zul, has a great bazaar
		- Underneath there is a vast sewer system in which secret cult shrines are hidden
		- Set, god of dead, turmoil, confusion, illness, storm, rage
>> AzmatThe Cannibal Coast (savannah, cannibal coast, cannibal tribes)
		- City-state of 
				- Baal, God of healing
>> Vedya (thief monkeys, ancient city, Kali, Ishtar)
		- Jungle of Kush: Dense humid jungle and home to fearsome  beasts and savages


Trees:
- Acacia
- Ash
- Cypress
- Oak
- Palm
- Pine

Herbs:
- Khanquah-Fungi: Ingesting one of these fungi acts as a powerful stimulant; the user doesn’t feel fatigue and becomes energetic and hyper-active, but also high-strung and has problems concentrating.
- Blue lotus: The alkaloids of blue lotus provide a mild sense of tranquility and euphoria, along with an altered sense of awareness.

Locations:
- Village
- City
- Burial site
- Tomb
- Tower
- Oasis
- Fort
- Mountain pass
- Temple
- Farm

Wilderness NPCs:
- Nomad camp
- Herd of cattle
- Slave caravan
- Pilgrims
- Trader caravan
- Fugitives

Wilderness maps:
- Plains
- Desert
- Jungle
- Taiga
- Road
- River
- Savannah
- Swamp
- Tundra

Random quests:
- Get an item
- Take item to another NPC
- Kill monster
- Escort service
- Safari

A heavy odor of incense hangs in the air.

	    mprint ("The throne emits an eerie violet-black radiance.");
	    mprint ("You find, to your horror, that you cannot get up!");
	    mprint ("You feel an abstract sucking sensation...");
	    forget_all_spells();
	    Player.pow = 3;
	    Player.mana = 0;
	    Player.hp = 1;
	    dispel (-1);
	    morewait();
	    clearmsg();
	    mprint ("The radiance finally ceases. You can get up now.");

THE EYE OF ISHTAR
This green emerald amulet, hung in silver
chains, is a potent charm against undead. It
radiates strong necromantic magic. 

Yb: Old ruined city. A secret, evil cult worshipped a
monstrous Xuth in the catacombs beneath the ruins.
Known for its giant war-axes

or example,
the Egyptians, according to Manetho, considered iron to be the bone of Mars and the
lodestone the bone of Horus. By analogy, lead would be the physical skeleton of Saturn,
copper of Venus, quicksilver of Mercury, gold of the sun, silver of the moon, and
antimony of the earth. It is possible that uranium

The number five was peculiarly associated by the Pythagoreans with the art of healing, and the pentagram,
or five-pointed star, was to them the symbol of health. 

Egypt, a great center of learning and the birthplace of many arts and sciences, furnished
an ideal environment for transcendental experimentation. Here the black magicians of
Atlantis continued to exercise their superhuman powers until they had completely
undermined and corrupted the morals of the primitive Mysteries. By establishing a
sacerdotal caste they usurped the position formerly occupied by the initiates, and seized
the reins of spiritual government. Thus black magic dictated the state religion and
paralyzed the intellectual and spiritual activities of the individual by demanding his
complete and unhesitating acquiescence in the dogma formulated by the priestcraft. The
Pharaoh became a puppet in the hands of the Scarlet Council--a committee of arch-
sorcerers elevated to power by the priesthood.
These sorcerers then began the systematic destruction of all keys to the ancient wisdom,
so that none might have access to the knowledge necessary to reach adeptship without
first becoming one of their order. They mutilated the rituals of the Mysteries while
professing to preserve them, so that even though the neophyte passed through the degrees
he could not secure the knowledge to which he was entitled. Idolatry was introduced by
encouraging the worship of the images which in the beginning the wise had erected solely
as symbols for study and meditation. False interpretations were given to the emblems and
figures of the Mysteries, and elaborate theologies were created to confuse the minds of
their devotees. The masses, deprived of their birthright of understanding and groveling in
ignorance, eventually became the abject slaves of the spiritual impostors. Superstition
universally prevailed and the black magicians completely dominated national affairs,
with the result that humanity still suffers from the sophistries of the priestcrafts of
Atlantis and Egypt.

All temples have craftsmen and slaves, while some
temples, especially those dedicated to Ishtar, also
employ temple prostitutes and castrates.
Not everyone has access to all parts of the temple.
The inner shrine, where the cult statue of the temple
god is located, is typically forbidden to anyone but
the high priest, although during certain religious
festivals the cult statues are taken out and paraded
through the city streets. Non-priest temple servants
are limited to the workshops and outer areas of the
temple compound.

Temple-prostitution is associated with the cult of
Ishtar, the goddess of love, fertility, and war. Ishtar’s
divine consort is the shepherd god, Tammuz. From
their union the land grows fertile and prospers. But
Tammuz is bound to spend half of the year in the
Underworld. Thus, during late summer, autumn and
early winter, Tammuz is in the realm of death and no
plants will grow. On New Year’s day, he is released
and fertility and growth yet again returns to the land
as he is reunited with Ishtar.
To ensure the prosperity and fertility of the land,
the Sumerian king ritually re-enacts this Sacred
Marriage each year during the akitu-festival, when he
sleeps with the high priestess of Ishtar atop the city’s
ziggurat. From this royal ritual, sacred prostitution
has developed, wherein the lesser priestesses of Ishtar
give themselves to the worshippers to ensure the
fertility of the land.
In some areas, all unmarried women must serve a
period at Ishtar’s temple each year, something which
is regarded as a privilege. Male temple prostitutes are
also known, representing Tammuz for female wor-
shippers.

Anunnaku: The Akkadian name for a group of
gods of the underworld. They function as judges in
the realm of the dead. 

Apkallu: In Akkadian mythology, the seven (or
sometimes eight) sages serving the kings as ministers.
Basmu: A giant snake forty cubits long, with sev-
eral tongues and jaws. The symbol of the Sumerian
god Nin-gishzida.

Belit-Sheri: Babylonian scribe of the underworld
who kept the records of human activities so she could
advise the queen of the dead on their final judge-
ment.

A Sumerian temple is staffed by a variety of offi-
cials. These include the shangamahhu (high priest),
the shangu (ritual priest), the baru (baru-priest?) (diviner), and the
ashipu (exorcist).
Other temple servants include the kalu (ritual sing-
ers and temple-musicians), the nash-patri
(sword-bearers), the mari ummani (crafters of images
and statues), the pashishu (anointers) and the ramku
(washers). The latter two perform purification rites
in a sacred bath hall.

The Babylonians and Assyrians firmly believed that
omens revealed the future. The baru (literally “seer”) was
an interpreter of omens who had a number of divinatory
techniques at his disposal. Although commonly associ-
ated with temples, they were by no means limited to this,
and baru-priests sometimes played an important part in
state affairs. One or more diviners accompanied any
military campaign, and the king would always consult a
seer before taking making major decisions.

In ancient Mesopotamia, the ashipu was a ritual
magician whose tasks consisted of performing ward-
ing rituals, making incantations against evil, and
treating cursed and diseased individuals. They were
frequently consulted during the building of temples,
palaces and public buildings regarding the place-
ment of sacred foundation-stones. Ashipu were
also instrumental in crafting and enchanting the
gargantuan guardian statues placed near the door-
ways of important buildings.

A hierophant is a priest, usually a cleric or druid,
that has turned to the worship of an entire pan-
theon instead of a single god. The hierophantic
philosophy is to appease the gods who rule the
different aspects of life, in order to ensure prosper-
ity. Akin to druids, hierophants have a neutral
world-view and accept that which is cruel or hor-
rific in nature. Some hierophants include sacrifice
of sentient beings in their rituals, usually justified
by a concern for the greater good and the prosper-
ity of a group of people. Hierophants are pragmatic
and also dabble in arcane magic to achieve their
goals.

The laws as formulated by Hammurabi are practiced
across all of Mesopotamia. It is a law of exact revenge: “an
eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a life for a life”. The
laws regulate everything from offences against property;
ownership and care of land and houses; merchants,
artisans and trade; women, marriage, family property and
inheritance; assault and personal injury; and ownership
and sale of slaves.

Alchemist
The scientists and inven-
tors of Lemuria, these
characters are often mistaken for wizards by those
who do not understand science. Skills covered are
things like making potions & perfumes, plant lore,
poisons, medicines, metallurgy, distilling urlium
(lighter-than-air-metal) for floaters (flying boats)
etc. This is not a terribly common career for adven-
turing Heroes, as it requires too much patience and
too much staying at home. Mind is normally the
most important attribute for an Alchemist.
Assassin
These covert killers are adept at sneak attacks, kill-
ing, information gathering, city lore, persuasion, poi-
sons, lock-picking and tend to have fast reflexes.
Most of the attributes are important for assassin
characters.
Barbarian
These characters are not from the cities of Lemuria,
but from the Red Forests, Valkarthan Northlands or
other wildernesses of the continent. They have natu-
ral skills in wilderness lore, living rough, berserk
rage, riding, intimidation, natural instincts and so on.
Barbarians are generally noted for their Strength, but
a good Agility is also useful.
Blacksmith
Often found helping Alchemists build their inven-
tions, these characters are skilled at weapon and ar-
mour making and repair, metallurgy, weapon lore,
and have skill in bartering and haggling the price of
weapons and armour. Blacksmiths are generally
noted for their Strength.



Dancer
Exotic female entertainers,
these ladies are always
young, nubile, graceful
and energetic. They rely
mostly on their Appeal
and Agility.
Farmer
A farmer character lives
outside the city, but often
within a days travel, so that they are able to get their
produce to the city to feed the populace. They are
skilled in basic plant & animal lore, animal han-
dling, cooking, trading for basic goods and such like.
Farmers do not rely on any one attribute over any
other.
Gladiator
Often forced into life of professional arena fighters,
the Gladiator is skilled in one-on-one tactics, exotic
weapons, weapon lore, initiative and weapon train-
ing. They are especially good at fighting in a style
‘to please the crowd’ and so they might get a combat
bonus on certain flashy moves, if not overused and
at the GM’s discretion. Gladiators should be strong
and agile but the most popular ones also have plenty
of appeal.
Hunter
Rugged outdoor types skilled in wilderness lore, liv-
ing rough, trapping, tracking, stealth and other simi-
lar pursuits. Agility is important to a Hunter, as are
Strength and Mind to a slightly lesser degree..
Magician ( or Wizard, Sorceror, Necromancer)
Often a little strange, these characters are knowl-
edgeable of esoteric matters to do with astrology, as-
tronomy and ancient lore. They also have skill in
sorcery, which is detailed in a later chapter. Magi-
cians need powerful minds both for their studies and
for the will to create and cast mighty spells.
Merchant
These are not shopkeepers, these are wide travelled
Next the player chooses
four Careers for his Hero.
A minimum of 0 may be
placed and again the maxi-
mum is rank 4.
The Career choices are
from the following
Alchemist
The scientists and inven-
tors of Lemuria, these
characters are often mistaken for wizards by those
who do not understand science. Skills covered are
things like making potions & perfumes, plant lore,
poisons, medicines, metallurgy, distilling urlium
(lighter-than-air-metal) for floaters (flying boats)
etc. This is not a terribly common career for adven-
turing Heroes, as it requires too much patience and
too much staying at home. Mind is normally the
most important attribute for an Alchemist.
Assassin
These covert killers are adept at sneak attacks, kill-
ing, information gathering, city lore, persuasion, poi-
sons, lock-picking and tend to have fast reflexes.
Most of the attributes are important for assassin
characters.
Barbarian
These characters are not from the cities of Lemuria,
but from the Red Forests, Valkarthan Northlands or
other wildernesses of the continent. They have natu-
ral skills in wilderness lore, living rough, berserk
rage, riding, intimidation, natural instincts and so on.
Barbarians are generally noted for their Strength, but
a good Agility is also useful.
Blacksmith
Often found helping Alchemists build their inven-
tions, these characters are skilled at weapon and ar-
mour making and repair, metallurgy, weapon lore,
and have skill in bartering and haggling the price of
weapons and armour. Blacksmiths are generally
noted for their Strength.
“…into this violent age of sorcery and conquest, of
the assassin’s dagger and the venomed chalice,
where the greed of Sark was set against the blood-
lust of the Druid, with the Throne of Lemuria for
prize….came one man, a wandering adventurer
from the savage wilderness of the Northlands:
Thongor of Valkarth, armed with the iron thews of
the warrior and the barbarian’s contempt of dan-
ger….”
Lin Carter, Thongor of Lemuria
? ??????????????
10
sea lore, navigation by stars, and boat handling with
a goods knowledge of far ports. Pirates need to be
agile and some strength is always handy.
Priest/Druid
Reside in their temples in the major cities of Le-
muria, knowledgeable in ancient lore, sorcery, as-
trology, astronomy and literacy. Their position gives
them a certain degree of authority. They need to
have clever minds and maybe a degree of appeal.
Serving Wench
No tavern is complete without its serving wenches.
Their closeness with their customers gives them
good skills in seduction, gossip, city lore and carous-
ing. Some are even good at taking things from cus-
tomers without them noticing. It is stating the obvi-
ous, but only female characters can choose this as a
career. Appeal is the most important attribute for a
serving wench.
Scribe
Characters who are interested in ancient lore, ancient
languages and map making. Obviously this leads to
a certain degree of knowledge in these areas too.
Scribes need clear minds to do their often laborious
work.
Slave
Not exactly a career of choice, slavery would often
be the result of being a captured soldier or similar.
Nevertheless, it does provide the opportunity to pick
up a few skills and techniques that
other careers do not give and can be
useful in rounding out a character con-
cept. The career gives skill in things
like humility, going unnoticed, listen-
ing and sneaking. Slaves that are used
for labour need good strength, female
slaves normally find things better (or
worse!) if they are appealing. Slaves
used to run errands often need high
agility. Clever slaves are normally con-
sidered trouble makers.
Soldier
The paid guards in a city. They will
have some city lore, perhaps skills in
intimidation and riding as well as a
small degree of authority. Strength is
adventurers, who seek new exotic goods to sell and
as such pick up a range of useful skills like trading,
persuasion, city lore, knowledge of distant places,
guild membership. Merchants need quick minds and
a degree of appeal.
Mercenary
Soldiers who work for anyone who will pay for their
services. They tend to have skill in living rough, rid-
ing, intimidation, carousing, and even simple
weapon and armour repair. Mercenaries should be
strong and agile.
Minstrel
Wandering entertainers, these characters are profi-
cient in pleasing crowds of people and earning a few
coins from their singing, instruments, performing.
Because they travel and are great gossips, they learn
ancient legends, fast talk and have good city lore.
Minstrels require appeal as well as agility and quick
minds.
Noble
Often holding homes in the city and estates or villas
outside the city, these characters are titled and have
some authority over commoner people. They are
able to obtain credit, have high-ranking contacts and
are skilled in such things as bribery, dress sense and
etiquette. Nobles need plenty of appeal as well as
clever minds.
Physician
A dispenser of potions and medicines,
someone knowledgeable of plant lore,
first aid and diseases. They need to be lit-
erate. Mind is the most important attibrute
for a physician character.
Pilot
Pilots are trained to fly the Floaters of
Thongors Patangan Air Cavalry. They are
usually ex-soldiers. They have skills in
handling flying craft, navigation, observa-
tion and leadership. Mind, agility and to a
lesser extent appeal and strength are all
handy.
Pirate
A rogue of the seas, skilled in climbing,
11
normally most important for soldiers although arch-
ers and cavalrymen could do with a bit of agility.
Thief
Those who live by less than honest means in the
streets of the towns and cities. They will have skill
in such things as city lore, burglary, sneaking, pick-
ing pockets and are likely to have guild membership
Thieves require agility for their trade, but a quick
mind also helps.
Torturer
A not terribly pleasant career, that provides skill in
getting information, intimidation, medicines and
killing blows with 2-handed axes. Torturers are not
often blessed with a great deal of appeal, but
strength is handy for beheadings and both mind and
agility for torturing.




The city of Ibnath was founded upon the discovery of
gold and precious stones beneath the hills of the south-
western edge of the mighty Zagros mountains. A mine
was established near a pair of tall mountain peaks called
the Horns of Sinmesh. Here, thousands of slaves toiled
and died in the narrow, sulphur-stinking tunnels and
smoky shafts deep in the sunless halls beneath the Horns,
while camel trains brought gold and gems along the
Glittering Road to Ibnath’s markets and bazaars.
Then, after centuries of mining, the rich ores were
supposedly exhausted, or so the merchants and goldsmiths
of Ibnath were led to believe. In fact, a strange wasting
disease of unknown origin began to affect the slaves.
Fearing the spread of this disease, against which spells and
prayers proved useless, the Hierophants of Ibnath reluc-
tantly ordered their overseers to seal the diseased slaves
within the mine’s shafts and abandon the mines.
Most of the slaves died from the disease, but a small
clan resisted the plague; however, they were hope-
lessly imprisoned deep in the bowels of the earth. Over
the years, these survivors adapted to the gloomy envi-
ronment, subsisting on underground fungi and insects,
but became degenerate, stunted creatures fearful of
bright light.
When the vampire-kingpriest Arukurshu was ban-
ished from Ibnath, he retreated to the mines beneath
the Horns of Sinmesh. He discovered the degenerate
slaves and thought to enslave them to his own pur-
poses. But Arukurshu’s plans were foiled when he
realized that the degenerates had begun to worship a
loathsome toad-being whose slimy idol they had un-
earthed in the lightless caverns deep beneath the
mines.
THE PLAGUE OF SINMESH
The disease which affected the slaves working in the
deepest pits of the mines was appropriately named the
Plague of Sinmesh. While its ultimate source is un-
known, it is not unlikely that the toad-god Tsathogga
spread the disease with the intent to claim the gem-rich
mines as his own. The effect of the disease is to slowly
waste the infected creature to a dried-out husk. As the
disease progresses, black and green slime continuously
drips and oozes out of the victim’s orifices.

This large, many-columned sanctum is dimly illu-
minated by a large bronze brazier. A heavy odor of
incense hangs in the air. Behind the brazier, to the
right, stands a large black ebony statue of Tammuz, a
handsome man grasping a flail in one hand and a
sickle in the other hand. The statue’s eyes are set with
two large crimson red rubies (worth 5,000 gp each).
To the left of Tammuz stands a white ivory statue of
the naked goddess Ishtar, her navel set with a fist-
sized brilliant green emerald (worth 5,000 gp). Both
statues are 15 feet tall.
If a character burns a small sacrifice (worth at least 10
gp) in the brazier and dedicates it to Tammuz, that
character always benefits maximally from healing spells;
that is, healing spells always cure the maximum number of
hit points possible. This effect lasts until the next sunrise.
If a similar sacrifice is made and dedicated to Ishtar,
the character’s melee weapons always cause maxi-
mum damage on a successful hit (for example, a
longsword always causes 8 points of damage). This
effect lasts until the next sunset.
However, if a character sacrifices to both deities,
both benefits are lost, and the character does not
benefit from any more sacrifices made until the next
full moon.
If anyone attempts to steal the gems set into the
statues, a scorpion-demon (see the Tome of Horrors
by Necromancer Games and the Monster Appendix
in this book) appears to punish the transgressor. It
targets the first creature to touch any of the gems, and
fights until slain.

Like a mirage rising from the blazing sand dunes, the
massive walls of a sprawling, ruined city slowly take shape on
the horizon. Rust-red sand coils about the massive battle-
ments and broken columns, slowly moving like great serpents
in the howling desert wind. Great, carved brass gates are
flanked by colossal statues of dragons and shedu, the holy
winged bulls of mythology. A majestic stepped ziggurat looms
above the city walls; it seems it would take a thousand years
or more for this temple to fall to the ravages of wind, sand and
time. Packs of jackals or desert wolves can be spotted scaveng-
ing in the lesser ruins and among broken marble columns.
Except for the howling wind, a brooding silence hangs over
the ruined city.

The Great Ziggurat (Area G, EL 10+) domi-
nates the city. It was the seat of the
Hierophants, the circle of archpriests who
ruled the city before its fall. Potent sorcery
and spellbound sentinels still guard the shrines
and chambers within, where the Hierophants
lie in their stasis tombs, awaiting their day of
awakening.
• North of the ziggurat is the Palace of the
Kingpriest (Area F, EL 8). For centuries, the
secular ruler of Ibnath was the vampire-priest
Arukurshu. When the Hierophants banished
Arukurshu from the city, they sealed his ser-
vants, guards and courtiers inside the palace
and cast a powerful spell of stasis upon the
building, causing all within to fall into en-
chanted slumber.

The doors are carved with images of winged,
bearded, human-headed bulls, as well as three
robed humanoids who wear conical crowns
and carry lightning-tipped rods, against a
background of stars, moons, and planets. A
Knowledge (religion) check (DC 12) is
required to recognize the figures as
mythological images of the gods Anu,
Sin and Marduk.

Throughout the land are hun-
dreds of stone statues in the likeness of Jul-Jug-
gah, a great lizard-bird with monstrous features
and outstretched, leathery wings

The main ziggurat of the city is dedicated to
Baal-Khardah, but the sea-god Yammosh is more
popular among the many sailors and merchant-
captains Offerings of gold and animals are often
made to the temple of Yam¬mosh before any
sea-voyage

The southern quarters of the city, home to sail-
ors, slavers, mercenaries and other for¬eigners,
is well-known outside Ghazor for its many
depraved vices and lawless atmosphere The
king and his nobles, busy with their own
schemes and pleasures behind massive palace
walls to the north, largely ignore the unruly
docks Thus the southern seafront is rarely
patrolled by the city guard, but the naval docks
to the northeast are well-guarded

The solar system was organized by forces operating inward from the great ring of the
Saturnian sphere; and since the beginnings of all things were under the control of Saturn,
the most reasonable inference is that the first forms of worship were dedicated to him and
his peculiar symbol--the stone. Thus the intrinsic nature of Saturn is synonymous with
that spiritual rock which is the enduring foundation of the Solar Temple, and has its
antitypc or lower octave in that terrestrial rock--the planet Earth--which sustains upon its
jagged surface the diversified genera of mundane life..

Deodath
The terrific dragon-cat of the Chushan and Kovian
jungles. They are the most feared land-beasts of the
entire continent. They have three hearts and two
brains and are virtually un-killable, except by
mighty heroes.


DREAMS

The character is traveling through desert dunes when he is surrounded by an icy mist that
rises from the ground. An ethereal marauder lurks in the mist.
2. The character drifts endlessly in the black gulfs of space. The following days, the character
will always be freezing, even under the rays of the desert sun. Treat the character as
permanently fatigued for 3d6 days.
3. The character encounters a black woman of sinister beauty who attempts to rape the
character. Treat the black woman as a night hag.
4. The character falls into a watery abyss and drifts near a black portal. The character finds
himself able to breathe in water. A set of immense tentacles extend from within the black
portal. The tentacles belong to a kraken.
5. A blue sla’ad rests on a throne of black basalt. It wants to know the character’s truename, or
else it attacks.
6. The character is captured by a race of lizard-men and carried in heavy chains to an
underground lake. Here, they attempt to sacrifice the character to an aboleth which dwells
in the lake.
7. The character walks through an endless maze whose white walls are carved with black images
of toads. A hezrou demon appears behind the character and chases him to a circular room
with a bottomless pit. The dream ends if the character jumps into the pit.
8. A chaos beast appears out of a thick purple mist.
9. The character descends a crumbled stair which has 101 steps. At the bottom of the stairs is
a large cavern with seven pillars of gold. An elder xorn bursts from the cavern floor if any
of the pillars are touched.
10. A winged goddess appears and grants the character the gift of flight in return for the
sacrifice of a point of Constitution (both the ability to fly and the ability drain last for the
duration of the dream only). If the character agrees, he sprouts wings and soars among the
clouds. Describe one location on the campaign map which was previously unknown to the
player character.
11. The character is a bystander during a ceremony in which a procession of white-robed priests
ascend the steps of a great ziggurat. The priests escort a black-haired woman, who is naked
except for the rich golden jewelry she wears. When the priests reappear from the temple
shrine atop the ziggurat, the woman is no longer with them, and small crimson stains can be
spotted on the priests’ robes.
12. The character is present at the ceremony where a handsome, bearded young man is crowned
the kingpriest of a great city-state. Black eunuchs with scarlet loincloths and gold-hilted
falchions flank the throne of the kingpriest.
13. The character is part of a caravan of refugees coming out of the west. The caravan stops by
a river, and woolen-robed priests sacrifice a white bull to read its entrails. The priests are
horrified when they discover that the bull’s heart has turned to stone.
14. The character is a priest taking part in a ritual to a tentacled abomination in an underground
temple. The attendant priests all wear silken yellow robes and veils.
15. The character faces twelve black archways. Regardless of which archway the character
passes through, he appears in a court which is empty except for a purple throne. Coiled
around the purple throne is a spirit naga.
16. The character faces an adult black dragon. A bronze +3 greatsword appears in the hands of
the character. The sword renders the character immune to the dragon’s breath weapon.
17. The character is alone in the desert, at the foot of a great mountain, when a winged demon
(a vrock) appears and attacks.
18. The character is a foot soldier in a great battle, facing a charge of enemy chariots.
19. The character enters a temple where the priests chant to drive away demons during an
eclipse.
20. The character approaches an oasis and encounters a group of silver-veiled men. The veiled
ones do not speak, but draw curved daggers and attack the character. If the character tears
away the veil of one of the assailants (with a successful grapple check), he sees the face of
one of his trusted companions, then awakens.

setgamestatus (SKIP_MONSTERS);
    mprint ("Examine --");
    setspot (&x, &y);
    if (inbounds (x, y)) {
	clearmsg();
	if (Level->environment == E_COUNTRYSIDE) {
	    if (!loc_statusp (x, y, SEEN))
		mprint ("How should I know what that is?");
	    else {
		mprint ("That terrain is:");
		mprint (countryid (Level->site(x,y).showchar()));
	    }
	} else if (!view_los_p (Player.x, Player.y, x, y))
	    mprint ("I refuse to examine something I can't see.");
	else {
	    clearmsg();
	    monster* sm = Level->creature(x,y);
	    if (sm)
		mprint (mstatus_string (sm));
	    else if ((int)Player.x == x && (int)Player.y == y)
		describe_player();
	    if (loc_statusp (x, y, SECRET))
		mprint ("An age-worn stone wall.");
	    else {
		switch (Level->site(x,y).locchar) {
		    case SPACE:		mprint ("An infinite void."); break;
		    case PORTCULLIS:	mprint ("A heavy steel portcullis"); break;
		    case ABYSS:		mprint ("An entrance to the infinite abyss"); break;
		    case FLOOR:
			if (Level->environment == E_COUNTRYSIDE
			    || Level->environment == E_CITY
			    || Level->environment == E_TACTICAL_MAP
			    || Level->environment == E_VILLAGE)
			    mprint ("The ground.");
			else
			    mprint ("The floor.");
			break;
		    case WALL:
			if (Level->site(x,y).aux == 0)		mprint ("A totally impervious wall.");
			else if (Level->site(x,y).aux < 10)	mprint ("A pitted concrete wall.");
			else if (Level->site(x,y).aux < 30)	mprint ("An age-worn sandstone wall.");
			else if (Level->site(x,y).aux < 50)	mprint ("A smooth basalt wall.");
			else if (Level->site(x,y).aux < 70)	mprint ("A solid granite wall.");
			else if (Level->site(x,y).aux < 90)	mprint ("A wall of steel.");
			else if (Level->site(x,y).aux < 210) {
			    if (Level->environment == E_CITY)
				mprint ("A thick wall of Rampart bluestone");
			    else
				mprint ("A magically reinforced wall.");
			} else
			    mprint ("An almost totally impervious wall.");
			break;
		    case RUBBLE:	mprint ("A dangerous-looking pile of rubble."); break;
		    case SAFE:		mprint ("A steel safe inset into the floor."); break;
		    case CLOSED_DOOR:	mprint ("A solid oaken door, now closed."); break;
		    case OPEN_DOOR:	mprint ("A solid oaken door, now open."); break;
		    case STATUE:	mprint ("A strange-looking statue."); break;
		    case STAIRS_UP:	mprint ("A stairway leading up."); break;
		    case STAIRS_DOWN:	mprint ("A stairway leading down...."); break;
		    case TRAP:		mprint (trapid (Level->site(x,y).p_locf)); break;
		    case HEDGE:
			if (Level->site(x,y).p_locf == L_EARTH_STATION)
			    mprint ("A weird fibrillation of oozing tendrils.");
			else
			    mprint ("A brambly, thorny hedge.");
			break;
		    case LAVA:		mprint ("A bubbling pool of lava."); break;
		    case LIFT:		mprint ("A strange glowing disk."); break;
		    case ALTAR:		mprint ("An altar."); break;
		    case CHAIR:		mprint ("A chair."); break;
		    case WHIRLWIND:	mprint ("A strange cyclonic electrical storm."); break;
		    case WATER:
			if (Level->site(x,y).p_locf == L_WATER)
			    mprint ("A deep pool of water.");
			else if (Level->site(x,y).p_locf == L_CHAOS)
			    mprint ("A pool of primal chaos.");
			else if (Level->site(x,y).p_locf == L_WATER_STATION)
			    mprint ("A bubbling pool of acid.");
			else
			    mprint ("An eerie pool of water.");
			break;
		    case FIRE:		mprint ("A curtain of fire."); break;
		    default:		mprint ("Wow, I haven't the faintest idea!");

    werase (Flagw);
    if (Player.food < 0)
	wprintw (Flagw, "Starving\n");
    else if (Player.food <= 3)
	wprintw (Flagw, "Weak\n");
    else if (Player.food <= 10)
	wprintw (Flagw, "Ravenous\n");
    else if (Player.food <= 20)
	wprintw (Flagw, "Hungry\n");
    else if (Player.food <= 30)
	wprintw (Flagw, "A mite peckish\n");
    else if (Player.food <= 36)
	wprintw (Flagw, "Content\n");
    else if (Player.food <= 44)
	wprintw (Flagw, "Satiated\n");
    else
	wprintw (Flagw, "Bloated\n");

    if (Player.status[POISONED] > 0)
	wprintw (Flagw, "Poisoned\n");
    else
	wprintw (Flagw, "Vigorous\n");

    if (Player.status[DISEASED] > 0)
	wprintw (Flagw, "Diseased\n");
    else
	wprintw (Flagw, "Healthy\n");

    if (gamestatusp (MOUNTED))
	wprintw (Flagw, "Mounted\n");
    else if (Player.status[LEVITATING])
	wprintw (Flagw, "Levitating\n");
    else
	wprintw (Flagw, "Afoot\n");


Armour type Protection Notes
Gauntlets 1
Bracers 1
Boots 1
Greaves 1
Battle Harness 1
Chainmail Bikini 1
Leather Coat 2
Mail Shirt 3
Plate Cuirass 4
Helm or coif 1
Full Helm 2
Small shield 1
Large shield

Size Damage Example
Tiny 1
Very small d2
Small d3
Medium d4
Large d6-1
Huge d6
Massive D6+1
Enormous d8
Monstrous d10
Gigantic 2d6


    switch (o->charge) {
	case MEND_PRIEST:
	case ITIN_MERCH:
	case GUARD:
	case NPC:
	case MERCHANT:
	case ZERO_NPC:
	case HISCORE_NPC:
	case APPR_NINJA:
	case SNEAK_THIEF:
	case BRIGAND:
	case GENIN:
	case MAST_THIEF:
	case CHUNIN:
	case JONIN:		// cannibalism
	    mprint ("Yechh! How could you! You didn't even cook him, first!");
	    if (Player.alignment > 0)
		Player.food = 25;
	    Player.food += 8;
	    Player.alignment -= 10;
	    foodcheck();
	    break;
	case FNORD:		// fnord
	    mprint ("You feel illuminated!");
	    ++Player.iq;
	    break;
	case DENEBIAN:		// denebian slime devil
	    mprint ("I don't believe this. You ate Denebian Slime?");
	    mprint ("You deserve a horrible wasting death, uncurable by any means!");
	    break;
	case DRAGONETTE:	// can't get here... i_usef changed to I_FOOD
	    mprint ("Those dragon-steaks were fantastic!");
	    Player.food = 24;
	    foodcheck();
	    break;
	case BEHEMOTH:
	    mprint ("You feel infinitely more virile now.");
	    Player.str = max<uint8_t> (Player.str, Player.maxstr + 10);
	    Player.food = 24;
	    foodcheck();
	    break;
	case INVIS_SLAY:
	    mprint ("Guess what? You're invisible.");
	    if (Player.status[INVISIBLE] < 1000)
		Player.status[INVISIBLE] = 666;
	    Player.food += 6;
	    foodcheck();
	    break;
	case UNICORN:
	    mprint ("You ATE a unicorn's horn?!?!?");
	    Player.immunity[POISON] = 1000;
	    break;
	case HORNET:		// can't get here... i_usef changed to I_POISON_FOOD
	case GRUNT:
	case TSETSE:		// can't get here... i_usef changed to I_SLEEP_SELF
	case AGGRAVATOR:
	case BLIPPER:		// can't get here... i_usef changed to I_TELEPORT
	case GOBLIN:
	case GEEK:
	case NIGHT_GAUNT:	// can't get here... i_usef changed to I_POISON_FOOD
	case TOVE:
	case TASMANIAN:
	case JUBJUB:		// can't get here... i_usef changed to I_FOOD
	case CATEAGLE:
	    mprint ("Well, you forced it down. Not much nutrition, though.");
	    ++Player.food;
	    foodcheck();
	    break;
	case SEWER_RAT:
	case PHANTASTICON:	// can't get here... i_usef changed to I_POISON_FOOD
	case EYE:		// can't get here... i_usef changed to I_CLAIRVOYANCE
	case NASTY:		// can't get here... i_usef changed to I_INVISIBLE
	case CATOBLEPAS:
	case HAUNT:		// can't get here... i_usef changed to I_POISON_FOOD
	case ROUS:
	case DEATHSTAR:	// can't get here... i_usef changed to I_POISON_FOOD
	case EATER:
	    mprint ("Oh, yuck. The 'food' seems to be tainted.");
	    mprint ("You feel very sick. You throw up.");
	    Player.food = min<int16_t> (Player.food, 4); // fallthrough
	default:
	    mprint ("It proved completely inedible, but you tried anyhow.");

    mprint ("You innocently start to chew the szechuan pepper.....");
    morewait();
    mprint ("hot.");
    morewait();
    mprint ("Hot.");
    morewait();
    mprint ("Hot!");
    morewait();
    mprint ("HOT!!!!!!");
    morewait();
    p_damage (1, UNSTOPPABLE, "a szechuan pepper");
    mprint ("Your sinuses melt and run out your ears.");
    mprint ("Your mouth and throat seem to be permanently on fire.");
    mprint ("You feel much more awake now....");

shattered skull

    static const int8_t plains[] = { BUNNY, BUNNY, HORNET, QUAIL, HAWK, DEER, WOLF, LION, BRIGAND, RANDOM };
    static const int8_t forest[] = { BUNNY, QUAIL, HAWK, BADGER, DEER, DEER, WOLF, BEAR, BRIGAND, RANDOM };
    static const int8_t jungle[] = { ANTEATER, PARROT, MAMBA, ANT, ANT, HYENA, HYENA, ELEPHANT, LION, RANDOM };
    static const int8_t river[] = { QUAIL, TROUT, TROUT, MANOWAR, BASS, BASS, CROC, CROC, BRIGAND, RANDOM };
    static const int8_t swamp[] = { BASS, BASS, CROC, CROC, BOGTHING, ANT, ANT, RANDOM, RANDOM, RANDOM };
    static const int8_t desert[] = { HAWK, HAWK, CAMEL, CAMEL, HYENA, HYENA, LION, LION, RANDOM, RANDOM };
    static const int8_t tundra[] = { WOLF, WOLF, BEAR, BEAR, DEER, DEER, RANDOM, RANDOM, RANDOM, RANDOM };
    static const int8_t mountain[] = { BUNNY, SHEEP, WOLF, WOLF, HAWK, HAWK, HAWK, RANDOM, RANDOM, RANDOM };

The islands off the western coast of Vendhya where secret herbs are grown.

Being primarily concerned with
survival in the harsh desert environment, the Sons
of Saram worship several nature deities such as
storm-gods and animal-gods. Among the most
prominent of the latter is the vulture-god Yaazotsh,
who was worshipped in ancient Ibnath but whose
cult among the Saramites is considerably simpler
and lacks any complex theology. The nomads “sac-
rifice” the corpses of their dead to the vultures,
which prevents them from rising as undead. The
tribe’s current shaman, Urim, also interprets the
flight of packs of vultures as omens from Yaazotsh.

The Sons of Saram, or the Saramites, are known
by the civilized peoples to the west as the scourge
of the desert. They are red-robed, black-turbaned
raiders that carry wicked scimitar swords and roam
the desert on their wiry camel steeds, dwelling in
circular camel-hair tents. All warriors of Saram
have identifying tattoos on their foreheads.

Two nomad tribes are known to dwell in the Red
Waste; the Sons of Saram and the Brotherhood of
Kalab. Although common belief is that these clans
moved into the area from the north and the west in
recent centuries, the tribes are actually descen-
dants of the people of the ancient cities of Ibnath
and Yhakkoth, respectively.

g oety - One of the two greater Mysteries, this is
the sorcery of conjuration, command, and ban-
ishment of supernatural creatures from beyond
the boundaries of the world, those commonly
called demons 

The personal bodyguard and part-time enforcer
employed by a ranking nobleman or other person
of great wealth and power. He has lead an adven-
turous life as soldier of fortune, sellsword, merce-
nary, and bandit before ending up in his present
position.

A weasel of a man (or woman),

This sinister sorcerer is not a dry and weak old
man, but barely approaching his middle age, in
good shape, and not shrinking back from lead-
ing – and enjoying – a physical life He is already
deeply steeped in gruesome arcane secrets, and is
still delving deeper greedily, standing at the very
threshold of the greatest sorcerous mysteries And
he will stop at nothing to cross this threshold,
nothing at all

A veteran of a city’s gladiatorial arena and one of
its most popular and famous champions.

Not an earthly spider, but one with a body at least
the size of a large pumpkin It is has a chitinous
exoskeleton that protects it like hardened leather
(AV 3 Piercing, AV 2 Blunt & Cleaving) Its mur-
derous poison has a progression rate of a few min-
utes, and requires a QoS 4 to succeed at the Pro-
gression Check Take care: This is a PC-killer!

A huge beast, sized between a hippopotamus and
an elephant, and looking like a monstrous cross
between toad, lizard, and snail, its clammy flesh
part scaled, warty, and entirely gooey rubber, ooz-
ing of into semi-material shadowstuff Several ten-
tacles of different length and girth sprout asym-
metrically from its flanks, their surfaces broken
in seemingly random places by many tiny blood-
sucking maws The entire maddening demon is
composed of matter not entirely from this world;
random parts of it seem at times to shift into
immaterial darkness, and its bloated shape is in
constant, pulsating flux.
The beast is primitive and in a way rather sim-
ple, but definitely capable of speech, and devil-
ishly cunning It might very well be venerated or
appeased as a god

A cruel fiend that has lived through eons, one part
man, the other part demon, or maybe undead
It feeds on the life essence in the blood of man,
having to kill every time it feeds, and has drunk
dry entire nations 

This wealthy trading post along the route from
the city-states of Susrah to Khazistan and Jairan
in the west is noted for its sinful back alleys and
nefarious inhabitants It is a city of furtive sor-
cerers, strange and depraved cults, and a place
where the most perverted desires can be fulfilled
by the arrangements of fat mer¬chants eager to
sell anything
The city is old and surrounded by ancient
clay walls faced with colourful glazed tiles
Tar¬nished golden domes and marble minarets
are visible beyond the walls as one approaches
the city The massive main gate is over 600 years
old and receives a constant stream of visitors
entering and leaving

The wastelands of the al-Khazi Desert
are harsh and inhospitable to city-dwell-
ers, igno¬rant of the secrets
of the nomads The al-
Khazi is very hot (the aver-
age daytime temperature is
38 degrees Celsius), and the
majority of this desert is cov-
ered with vast sand dunes,
broken up here and there by
196
areas of stony desert with hills, jagged
rocks and wind-worn cliffs

At the fringes of the Khazistani Empire,
the wild Khazraj nomads (themselves
descended from the same racial stock as the
Khazistani peoples) are a constant men-
ace to caravans and travellers; sometimes
even outlying vil¬lages and towns of Kha-
zistan, Yar-Ammon and Jairan are subject to
raids from these free-willed nomad clans

Zul-Bazzir is the eastern metropolis of Khazistan
and the largest cities of desert, located amidst
lush palm trees in the sprawling oasis of Zul It
was founded five centuries ago by Yar-Ammo-
nite traders from the south and grew quickly
into a major center of trade, a stopover for all
major caravan routes through the al-Khazi
desert

Katanga is the only town of any importance in
the kingdom of Shoma; the lesser “towns” are
merely crude villages scattered across the grassy
plains South and east of Katanga are the Shining
Hills, jungle-covered highlands that abound with
gold

The terrain of northern Azimba is dominated by
savannah, while the southern regions are cov-
ered by jungles Throughout the land are hun-
dreds of stone statues in the likeness of Jul-Jug-
gah, a great lizard-bird with monstrous features
and outstretched, leathery wings

In a desolate valley north of the city walls
are the “Caverns of Bone”, ancient burial-
places for the Azimban dead The high priest
of Jul-Juggah has placed a taboo on the val-
ley, preventing people from worshipping
their ancestors, claiming the caverns are
haunted by the restless and malign
ghosts of the dead

Amongst the greater of these hills there is
a silent city of stone, and in days of old
many folk lived there They were human,
but they were not as mortal men, for they
had ruled those hills for ages and ages

The ancestors of the Ikuna made war on them
and at last all died, but their magicians brought
them back from the dead and now they list-
lessly dwell in burning hunger For ages have
they preyed on the tribes of the jungle, stalking
down from the hills at mid-night and at sunset
to haunt the jungle-ways and slay and slay

Approaching the town, great herds of cattle
can be seen; these belong to the king him-
self and many of the animals wear orna-
ments of beaten gold The cattle
in each herd number in the hun-
dreds, but are guarded closely
by scores of spearmen

ANU,
THE FATHER AND KING OF THE GODS
This god, besides being Father and King of the Gods, is also
God of the Sky, and the source of order in the Universe. He
appears as an old, bearded man, wearing loose fitting garments.
Ishtar is sometimes his consort. Anu is the great-grandson of
Apsu and Tiamat.
Anu is a distant god who has retired to the upper heavens and
leaves the affairs of the universe to Marduk and the younger
generation of gods.
Alignment: Lawful good.
Domains: Air, Law, Magic, Protection.
Symbol: Golden bull’s head.
Typical worshippers: Kings, nobles, exorcists.
Favored weapons: Quarterstaff.

FUNGI GARDEN (EL 6+)
This is a large natural cavern filled with all kinds of
fungi cultivated by the degenerates, including shriekers,
violet fungi and the notorious green fungi of Nhakh.

Dimly illuminated by green glowing fungi, this
huge cavern is the home of the degenerate descen-
dants of the ancient mine’s slave laborers. Their
current leader, Namra-Sagu, lairs in Area 16.

The nostalgia of things unknown, of lands forgotten or unfound, is upon me at times.
Often I long for the gleam of yellow suns upon terraces of translucent azure marble, mock-
ing the windless waters of lakes unfath¬omably calm; for lost, legendary palaces of serpen-
tine, silver and ebony, whose columns are green stalactites; for the pillars of fallen temples,
standing in the vast purpureal sunset of a land of lost and marvellous romance. I sigh for
(...) the strange and hidden cities of the desert, with burning brazen domes and slender pin-
nacles of gold and copper that pierce a heaven of heated lazuli.

The wastelands of the al-Khazi Desert
are harsh and inhospitable to city-dwell-
ers, igno¬rant of the secrets
of the nomads The al-
Khazi is very hot (the aver-
age daytime temperature is
38 degrees Celsius), and the
majority of this desert is cov-
ered with vast sand dunes,
broken up here and there by
areas of stony desert with hills, jagged
rocks and wind-worn cliffs

The Silver
Lotus is a rare plant growing in the dark depths
of remote caves on the Silver Lotus Isles, where
it is guarded by belligerent pygmy savages The
leaves are vulnerable to sunlight and spoilt by
just a few moments of exposure to it, but they
can, with certain additives, be ground into a
powder that is usually burnt in censers or else
smoked in long-stemmed pipes The fumes
of the Silver Lotus induce a deep sleep ripe
with fantastic, though sometimes frightening,
dreams
The drug has a certain sorcerous characteris-
tic and the dreams contain prophetic hints; one
Xothian version of the Omen Reading Skill is the
interpretation of visions imparted by the Silver
Lotusº

Mazanians
Deep in the southern jungles rise the moss-
grown palisade walls of the Mazanians, a matri-
archal society whose female warriors raid into
the surrounding lands for male slaves The jun-
gle kingdom is ruled by the black sorcerer-queen
of Boma-Ya, the forbidden city of the amazons

Religion: The gods of the Mazanians are not
well-known Some say they worship female
snake-beings, others that their queen is the thrall
of a male demon-god

It is thoroughly devoted to the worship of Tiamat,
the dragon-queen of chaos, with all other deities
being relegated to minor status. Babylon is ruled
by the blue-bearded priests of Tiamat, who in turn
serve the kingpriest, mightiest of all rulers in the
Fertile Crescent.

Farther east, a handful of impregnable for-
tress-cities are situated along the river-valleys
of the interior Zagros Mountains. These cities
are home to exiled warlords, tyrannical princes,
and strange cults. Among the latter are the
veiled monks of Ong, a monastic order of yel-
low-robed mystics of whom little is known but
much is speculated. No foreigner has ever been
inside their forbidden monastery on the frigid
plateau of Ong.

A northeastern offshoot of the Sumerian swamp-
delta, close to the great river Tigris, the loathsome
marshland known as the Black Marshes of Nammat
is avoided by most travelers, who prefer to follow
the longer trade routes to the southeast.

The cold and hostile mountains might be
avoided by civilized men were it not for the
fact that the verdant mountain slopes abound
with rare and wondrous herbs, such as the Blue
Lotus, which induces deep trances and strange
visions, and the K'lamtra herb, which is fa-
vored by black magicians for its usefulness in
death rituals.

The goal is to retrieve the Amulet of Thot.
The amulet is located deep beneath the Ancient Caverns.
Areas are composed of 5 floors that share the same setting (cavern, forest, etc).
Floors within the same area are connected by stairs.
Areas are connected by portals.
Portals can only used downwards unless the amulet is equipped.
Portals are custodiated by bosses.
There's a monster that drains your health in real time.

Main dungeon:
1-5     Cavern
6-10    Forest
11-15   Maze
16-20   Dungeon
21-25   Molten cave
26      

Optional dungeons:
Maggots' lair
Temple


World features:
- Violent, harsh, lawless
- City-states are the remains of old empires, they are corrupt, violence is rampart in and outside.
- Self-serving
- No direct manifestations of the divine
- Polytheistic religion
- Wrathful, non-benevolent gods
- Magic is rare, powerful, mysterious and not completely understood




Nebium: The strongest and one of the rarest metals.
It is dead-black, silk-smooth and very dense. The se-
cret of its manufacture has been lost in Thongor’s
day, but Alchemists continue to search

ancient forest realm of Athel
Loren, a fell place of mist and shadow that stretches over
hundreds of miles, dominating much of the western edge of
the Grey Mountains. While Athel Loren is nominally a part
of Bretonnia, no Lord of that realm has ever seen fit to claim
the place and with good reason. It is the kingdom of the Forrest
Elves, estranged kin of the folk of Ulthuan who keep their own
counsel under the leafy canopy.

Black Ones are black and naked, madelike men, but the shortest of them areheads and shoulders above a tall human.They are rangy, rather than massive, butare finely formed, with no suggestion ofdeformity or abnormality, save as theirgreat height is abnormal. But one cansense the basic diabolism of their features;every line, each feature is stamped withevil — evil transcending the evil of human-ity. Under their ebon skin long, roundedmuscles ripple, and the monsters can rendan ordinary man limb from limb. The nailsof the fingers are grown like the talons of awild beast. Their eyes are tawny, a vibrantgold that glows and glitters. They arenaked and hairless.Black Ones do not speak — vocally.  Theynod and gesture, but are strangely silent.They find pleasure in dragging to light theabysmal secrets that sleep in theunfathomed darkness of the human soul.They worship dark gods and live forever,save for violence or accident.

This world is filled with death and decay. Vengeful hordes wash across the land. Ancient empires have been reduced to city-states run by petty warlords who fight among them­selves like ravenous dogs. Disease runs rampant. Illiterate city-folk and simple farmers dread that which lurks in the dark.

This golden bow is imbued with powerful magic

A strange helm from the ancient land of Zena,
birthplace of the curious dealer Domhnall.

The two horns are believed to symbolize
wisdom.

Ash-colored stone encasing a skull.
Secret treasure of Arstor, the Earl of Carim.
Reduces curse build-up and breaks curse.

Humans are helpless against curses,
and can only redirect their influence.
The Purging Stone does not dispel curses,
but receives them as a surrogate. The stone
itself was once a person or some other being.

// These distinctive suits of armor are a special type of masterwork full plate that grant additional effects
Mossy round greatshield used by the guardian
of the Darkroot Garden, the Stone Knight.
The Stone Knight is a creation of ancient
magic, and this shield is imbued with the
same power, but is also extremely heavy.
Greatshield with an eagle design. Lightest
and easiest greatshield to handle.
Greatshields are very stable, and deflect
attacks. But one cannot parry, and instead
bashes with the shield.

The Skaven are commanded by the insidious Lords of Decay, a
collection of aged and terrible beings that sit upon the Council
of Thirteen, the ruling body of the Skaven race. Their capital
city, Skavenblight, is an ancient ruin that supposedly resides
near the centre of the cursed marshes that lie on the western
borders of Tilea. From the mouldering halls of Skavenblight,
the Lords of Decay conspire to expand their influence and
power, usually by seizing the underground kingdoms of the
Dwarfs and Goblins

The Skaven are divided into a series of clans, all of which
constantly jostle for position and influence with the Council of
Thirteen. The bulk of their clans consist of warriors and slaves
they’ve captured from rivals that they’ve eliminated; however, all
of the greatest clans among them have developed specialties that
set them apart, allowing each to carve out their own niche which
they ruthlessly cling to, destroying any threats to their position.
The Warlock Engineers of Clan Skryre presently have the most
power and thus, the most influence with the Lords of Decay.
They specialise in the creation and utilization of strange sorcerous
machines powered by a variety of Warpstone based devices, some
of which they’ve taken from other races for “modification” others
being entirely original to them. Ultimately, all of their machines
are designed to kill others and occasionally, their wielders.

Skaven are usually fairly cunning and always malicious, but
they’re prone to cowardice. They are confident only in large
numbers, when they greatly outnumber their opponents. They’re
obsequious to those they consider stronger than themselves,
though they will seldom hesitate to plant a dagger in the back of
a superior if they think they can get away with it. Assassination
is a commonplace and accepted way to advance one’s fortunes in
Skaven society. The Lords of Decay believe infighting makes
the Skaven race stronger as a whole. Conveniently enough, it
also means most of their inferiors don’t have time to plot against
them. Skaven workmanship is fairly shoddy by Human standards,
and reprehensible to dwarfs, but it is usually crudely effective.
The majority of Skaven have a lifespan of a mere thirty years,
with few indeed getting to die of natural causes. However,
repeated exposure to Warpstone can have a large variety of effects
on the Skaven, not least of which is a greatly extended lifespan.
Several of the Lords of Decay are supposedly well over a thousand
years old. When Skaven communicate, they use a great deal
more than words to convey meaning. Their gestures and more
importantly, their smell, helps to accurately convey their mood
to other Skaven. A furious Skaven smells of heated iron, whereas
the acrid stench of the musk of fear commonly shrouds a rat-man
who expects to die.

The Skaven worship an entity known as the Horned Rat, a
malevolent being served by the Grey Seers, a group of powerful
wizards and prophets who preach the ascension of the Skaven.
While they are nominally subject to the dictates of the Council
of Thirteen, their personal power makes individual Grey Seers
a constant wild card in Skaven politics. Grey Seers frequently
consume Warpstone to fuel their sorcery, a practice that
does little good for their sanity and other Skaven rightfully
fear them. The Horned Rat’s symbol, which has effectively
become the defining mark of the Skaven race, consists of three
overlapping lines roughly sketched in a vaguely triangular
pattern.

From the distant Land of Chill
come raiders to the shores of the
Old World, depraved warriors
bent on slavery and conquest.
Little is known of them in the
Empire and the few Elven envoys
that come from Ulthuan are loath to
speak about them, ever preferring
to avoid the subject when they
can or answer tersely when they
cannot.

Clad in corroded armor, their lifeless hands gripping swords, spears and shields these mindless automatons take up their blades when the clarion call of battle sounds, ready once more to fight for their king.

Dotted around the untamed regions are the ancient ruins of temples, cities, tombs and palaces toppled and cracked, choked with weeds and undergrowth, lying untouched and awaiting discovery for the vast treasures that remain within their shadowed halls and empty corridors.

A small, double-edged blade with a short grip. 